Hello everyone.
Welcome back to part two of tools for natural language processing in this lecture we're going to finally
finish off with discussing term frequency inverse document frequency of spark.
And then we'll also discuss count vectorization spark.
So let's go to the Jupiter notebook and get started.
OK so here I am at the Jupiter notebook I've already started the sparks session.
And let's begin with term frequency inverse document frequency.
And remember that's basically a feature of vectorization used with text to reflect the importance of
a term to a document in the corpus itself.
So what I'm going to do is start off by saying from Paice sparked the M-L that feature import.
And I'm going to import hashing T.F. for term frequency.
An idea for inversed document frequency as well as tokenizer.
And then I'm going to copy and paste the sentence data frame from the notes which just looks like this
is actually a data frame that we've worked with before.
Now let's just run this and let's show what it looks like since it's data show.
And I can see here you have the label of the document it belongs to as well as the sentence.
So what we're to do next is actually tokenize this which you've seen already before.
So we create our tokenizer object and that's going to be equal to tokenizer where my input column is
the sentence and my output column loops my outs put column is words.
So that's my tokenizer.
And now let's say words data is equal to that tokenizer just created and then I'm going to transform
the actual data from itself which in this case was sentence data.
OK.
Now let's actually show it words data looks like my transformed data frame and I see here I have the
sentence and the words themselves.
And if I wanted to see everything I could always just say truncate is equal to false and that will kind
of expand this to see everything but we'll just show the actual frame itself with the dot dot dot or
ellipses notation.
Now the next thing you want to do is actually grab the term frequency.
So what I will do is say hashing T.F. is equal to an instance of that hashing T.F. and I need to specify
that my input column is those tokens the words and also say my output column is output column.
And I'm going to call this raw features that kind of matches up the actual documentation.
So once we have that hashing T.F. object I'm going to create something called feature sized data that
don't exactly spell that right.
So a feature is data and then we'll say equals two hashing T.F. and then I'm going to transform the
words data.
Ok so now that I have that featuritis data what I can do is apply the inverse document frequency.
So I'll create an object IDF that's equal to IDF with the input column is now going to be those raw
features.
Features and then the output column is just going to be features because usually by this stage you know
you kind of towards the end so will say up column is equal to features then I call by an IDF model and
say IDF fit onto that featuritis data.
So T.F. IDF kind of has these two phases the term frequency part and then the inverse document frequency
part.
And then once we have our IDF model I can transform the features data so we'll call this rescaled data
and then we set this equal to the IDF model and we're going to transform the featuritis data and this
kind of workflow almost feels like similar to when we were doing Kamins clustering where we fit and
then transform that everything.
So now shakha our rescaled data and I'm just going to select the label column and then the features
column and then say that show and you can see here I have my features.
So if we say truncate false
and run this you can see here I've been able to transform those words into a term frequency inverse
document frequency.
Essentially what is a large array.
And now they're ready to go for any machine learning algorithm to deal with.
We have label and features.
So this is ready for any supervised learning algorithm.
Now let's show you count vectorizing.
Moving on from TFN IDF count vectorize are as well as the Count vectorize or model.
What they do is the aim to help convert a collection of documents into vectors of word counts.
So something like a tokenization so well one that doing say from Paice spark thought M-L up feature
import.
And then I'm going to import count vector Isar and I'm going to copy and paste the actual data frame.
And again this is actually from the documentation Billett show this data frame that I just copied and
pasted from the notes that you can grab as well is I have an ID and then some words.
And then I have ABC and in a BBCA I want to go into do is create a count vectorize or objects just call
it C-v count victimiser I'll specify that my input column is going to be words my output column is going
to be called features.
And then I can actually indicate a vocabulary size.
So what's the maximum number of available vocabulary words I want in this case.
I could just count them so I have a B and C so I could just say as an argument vocab size is equal to
three.
If you do shift tab here on the count vector Isar and come down the vocab size by default is 206 2144.
And that should be around I think 2 to the power of 20 or 10.
And then we can also specify a minimum.
The Fiesole say the F is equal to 2.0 So this minimum the F that's an optional parameter.
And what this does it affects that fitting process by specifying the minimum number of documents.
A term must appear in to be included in the vocabulary.
So if one term only appears in one document and the minimum DMF had that cut off then it wouldn't appear
in the count victimiser.
So you can do that if you have a bunch of esoteric words all around and you think that's going to mess
up your actual natural language processing.
But what I'm going to do now is say model is equal to CV fit and in order to fit it to the data frame
it was created and then I'm going to say results as equal to model.
Transform and then I'm going to transform my data frame and then I'm going to show the result let's
actually say truncate is equal to false here.
So when I see the whole thing and there we go we have our words.
And now we have our count vectorization models ready to go.
So you can see here how they kind of relate to a B and C so a appears once in the first document.
So it's right there 1.0 a appears twice.
So at the end than at the beginning of the second document so we say two counts for a B only appears
once.
And then C only appears once in the first document.
And we can see B appears twice here 2.0 and c appears once one point.
And this is essentially that bag of words method that we were discussing earlier.
And we can actually use count vectorization along with T.F. and IDF.
OK.
So hopefully this gave you an idea of how to use count vectorize for as well as how to use T.F. and
IDF along with tokenization what we're gonna do next is heads straight to the custom code along project
where we're going to combine all these tools that we've been learning to actually build a spam detection
filter.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.